Art historian [[Ernst Gobritch]] famously recounted an episode about an inquisitive lady at a dinner party who askes the eminent sinologist [[Arthur Waley]]: "How long will it be before us Westerners can appreciate Chinese cursive calligraphy?". After pausing for reflection (and perhaps a little gravitas) Waley replied: "500 years". This was probably the reply best suited to the circumstances, as the answer to such a question isn't something that can be resolved in the time it takes to eat dessert. In the course of their interactions with China and Japan, various representatives of European, Judeo-Christian cultures have come into contact with Chinese characters and calligraphy, until recent times nearly all have been blinkered by the unique filters which shaped their world view. In 1966, [[Abraham Maslow]] wrote:

> "I suppose it is tempting, if the only tool you have is a hammer, to treat everything as if it were a nail." [^1]

This is the root of the problem which has come to be referred to as the "[[Law of the Instrument]]" or the "[[Golden Hammer]]": an issue which is of crucial importance when we examine shifting perspectives of Chinese calligraphy in Europe and North America. The law of the instrument has meant that when looking at Chinese characters: all the [[Jesuits]] saw was proof of the divine, proof of the [[tower of Babel]] and the Gospel of Jesus Christ; all the philologists of the 18th century and linguists of the 20th century saw was a backwards language which emphasised [[style over substance]] and was terribly inefficient, the root cause of nationwide illiteracy; all the avant-garde [[abstract expressionists 抽象表现主义者]] saw was the expressive potential of line, a playful cat and mouse game between the dark and light, the rubins vase style interaction of figure-ground relationships. Sherman Lee knew as much in his 1956 review of [[Chiang Yee]]s classic book _Chinese Calligraphy_ in which he states:

> "there is more to calligraphy than self-expression or the pseudo-mystic resonances which too often clutter the _writings_ of the artists and critics of the contemporary avante-garde. Mr Chiangs careful analysis of the structure, the empathy of brush movements, etc., are objective criticism and explanation at their best; and judged by such standards, few of the Western abstractionists escape a whipping."[^2]

The Jesuits, linguists and New York school abstract expressionists all suffered from "[[Man with a Hammer]]" syndrome. A reliance on past experience to make sense of new encounters, the subconcious application of ones tried and trusted values and criteria to evaluate something novel. In a nutshell: trying to put a square peg into a round hole. In _[[Outlines of Chinese Art]]_, [[Charles Ferguson]] used a metaphor which was perhaps groundbreaking for 1918. He said:

> "The explorer in this new world...must not carry the ready made compass perfected by his own countrymen; for the divergent currents of wind and water will so distort its guiding needle that it will prove useless to him."

But for Chinese calligraphy in the modern art world of the west, the foreign compass has prevailed. Perhaps the term "Chinese calligraphy" is now too broad, a divergent tradition with new offshoots? In _[[The Art of Calligraphy in Modern China]]_, [[Gordon Barrass 白若思]] groups modern Chinese calligraphers into four different schools: classical, modernist, neo-classical and avante-garde. Artists which Barrass places in the avant-garde category: [[Xu Bing 徐冰]], [[Zhang Dawo 张大我]], [[Pu Lieping 卜列平]], [[Wei Ligang 魏立刚]], [[Wang Nanming 王南溟]] and [[Zhang Qiang 张强]] would almost certainly not be thought of as calligraphers per se in China. One thing we can say with almost absolute certainty is the works which are prominent in the West are not the same as those which are valued by the [[Chinese Calligraphers Association]] in China.

#avant-garde #PuLieping #GanGu #XuBing #WeiLigang #WangNanming #ZhangQiang #Barrass #GordonBarrass #ChineseCalligraphersAssociation #CCA #TheArtOfCalligraphyInModernChina #CharlesFerguson #OutlinesOfChineseArt #ChiangYee #ChineseCalligraphy #AsbstractExpressionists #AbrahamMaslow #GoldenHammer #TowerofBabel #ManWithAHammerSyndrome #ErnstGombritch #ArthurWaley #铁锤人 #人物 #前卫书法 #徐冰 #白若思 #亚瑟威力 #蒋彝 #中国书法家协会 #张强 #巴别塔 #福开森 #抽象表现主义 #抽象画 #卜列平 #张大我 #魏立刚 #王南溟 #耶稣会 #Jesuits

[1]: 1966, The Psychology of Science: A Reconnaissance by Abraham H. Maslow, Quote Page 15 and 16, Published by Harper & Row, New York. (Verified on paper)

[2]: “Review: [Untitled] on JSTOR.” Accessed November 22, 2022. [https://www.jstor.org/stable/427889?origin=JSTOR-pdf](https://www.jstor.org/stable/427889?origin=JSTOR-pdf).