Is there any escape from the slavery of the will? In the third book of his chief work Schopenhauer expounds a way of escape through Art. Always in animals, and for most of the time in humans, knowledge is at the service of the will, employed in securing the satisfaction of its desires. But it is possible to rise above the consideration of objects as mere instruments for the satisfaction of desire, and to adopt an attitude of pure contemplation. This attitude is most easily adopted towards beauty, whether in nature or in Art. We must lose ourselves in a natural landscape or a piece of architecture; lose ourselves, literally, by forgetting our will and our individuality. We must become a simple mirror of the object of our contemplation, so that the perceiver and the perceived become one. ‘In such contemplation the particular thing becomes at once the Idea of its species, and the perceiving individual becomes pure subject of knowledge.’

The Ideas which Schopenhauer is here talking of are not Lockean ideas of perception, but the Platonic Idea of the species. It is through Art, the work of genius, that we make contact with the universal which is independent of, and more real than, the individual, like the single rainbow quietly resting on the innumerable showering drops of the waterfall. Every human has the power of knowing the Ideas in things, but the genius excels ordinary mortals in possessing this knowledge more intensely and more continuously. In contemplation free from will, we lose our concern with happiness and unhappiness, and we cease to be individual. ‘We are only that one eye of the world which looks out from all knowing creatures, but which can become perfectly free from the service of will in man alone.’

The theory of the liberating effect of aesthetic contemplation is developed in a detailed consideration of the various arts – architecture, painting, poetry, drama, and above all, music, the most powerful of the arts. Music, Schopenhauer says, is not, like the other arts, a copy of the Ideas, but is the copy of the will itself, whose objectification the ideas are. Schopenhauer’s notion of music emptying the self was echoed by T. S. Eliot, when he wrote in “The Dry Salvages” of

music heard so deeply  
That it is not heard at all, but you are the music
While the music lasts.


But the person whose life was most affected by Schopenhauer’s writing on music was Richard Wagner, who came to think of himself as the embodiment of Schopenhauerian genius.

#叔本华 #音乐 #艺术 #人类认知水平 #通过艺术的升华 #哲学
#书写与哲学 #Wagner #Schopenhauer 