#皇家亚洲学会 

# 皇家亚洲学会
1834-1888 西方人了解（not really）中国语言/书法的线索：

>Alphabetic stage, the Chinese language once reached the, XVII. 453, n.s.
>
>Clepsydra, the early appearance of the, in China, XVIII. 15, n.s.
>
>Douglas, Prof. R. K., “Ancient Sculptures in China,” XVIII. 469, n.s. ; his note on Tsuh fu, XIX. 512, n.s.
>
>Giles, H. A., value of essay by, on Chinese poetry, XVI.459, 71 .S. ; “ Historic China,” XVII. 428, n.s. ; his “Remains of Lao Tzu,” XVIII. 563, n.s.
>
>*Legge*, Rev. Prof., “ Principles of Composition in Chinese, as deduced, from the *Written Characters* ,” XL 238, n.s . ; quoted, on chess-playing, XVII. 355, n.s. ; two hooks by, on China, XVIII. 5ti2, n.s. ; his notice of A. Wylie, XIX. 353, n.s.
>
>*Wylie, A*., on an ancient inscription in the Neu-Chili language, XVII. 331, o.s. ; inscription at Keu-yung kwan, in North China, V. 14, n.s. ; translation by, of the records of Hiungnu, X. 292, n.s. ; Sanskrit-Chinese books brought by him from Japan, XII. 187, n.s. ; *life and labours of*, XIX. 351, 513, n.s.
>
>*Tseng, Marquis, Chinese Minister at the Court of St. James*, works in Chinese presented by to R.A.S., XIII. xiii, n.s. ; his testimony as to the genuineness of the sculptures in the Wu temple, XVIII. 470, n.s. ; “Art, a Chinese version of an English poem by II. IV. Freeland,” XIX. 136, n.s.
>
>Aguta, the real founder of the Kin Dynasty, IX. 247, n.s. causes a new alphabet to be made for the Kin, based on the Chinese Kiai tsi characters, 277 ;
> 
>Annamese employs Chinese characters adapted to a phonetic syllabary, X. 30, n.s.

>Couvreur, PMe S., obtains the Stanislas-Julien Prize for his Franco-Chinese Dictionary, XIX. 331, n.s
>
>Davis, J. F., memoir concerning the Chinese, Trans. I. 1 ; extracts from Peking’s Giazettes, 254, 384, Trans. II. 86 ; art of writing Chinese characters, Trans. I. 304 
>
>Edkins, Rev. J., D.D., MS. “ Chinese Mythology and Art,” XVII. cxix, n.s. 
>
>Ku-wen characters of the Chinese language, XVII. 449, n.s.
>
>Lenormant, M., his view by, of the origin of Chinese writing, XI. 240, n.s.
>
>Seang chi, the Chinese game of chess, XVII. 355, n.s. ; plan of the board, 361 ; movements of the pieces, 362.

>Surround, the game of, a Chinese variation of the game of chess, XVII. 356, n.s.
>
>"Wade, Sir T., convention lately made between him and Lihung-Chang, X. 113, n.s. ; supplements that made at Tientsin seventeen years ago, ; his collection of Chinese books at Cambridge, XIX. 179, n.s. ; his note on Dr, Edkins’s paper on the pi’iority of labial letters, 207.
>
>Culver, Capt., on the writing of Hainan, XVII. 445, n.s.
>Hainan, forgotten writing in, XVII. 445, n.s.
>Tortoise shell of the Mergui Archipelago, III. 42, o.s. writing, XVII. 437, n.s.
>
>
>Japanese writing, XV. 328, n.s.
>
>China, phonetic characters have gradually yielded to the preponderance of the ideogram, XV.  265.
>the formation of w’ritten characters in, commenced about 5000 years ago, XI. 238, n.s. ;
> three principles of formation provided about 1500 characters, 239 ;
> street literature of, very abundant, 251. North, branch of 
  the Royal Asiatic Society, notice of papers in, XIV. xlvi, n.s.